I have a question for my patreon
supporter I give the link below this
video you can join me on patreon ask me
questions and they're gonna respond it's
just like this one so no way I'm
clean-shaven and I'm recording at home
not that story but it has my guild
Melissa she can chime in anytime but
she's kind of more off camera than on
camel or this video spontaneously
recording in our tub so I got an
interesting question from to your
supporter in response to a critique of
Islam more than a month ago on this
channel but I want to emphasize this
question has a direct bearing on my
critique of communism on political
discussions of and criticism of Adam
there's any conceivable political
position but including important
political questions within veganism
animal rights ecology etc right now this
is an interesting case where I took
notes on the question and then came back
and looked at the original wording I
felt that this question boiled down to
challenging me by asking does any
particular example in politics really
count how can you treat an example as
representative and left-wingers and
communist is very often just yesterday
we heard Mexi and privileged vegan
playing exactly the scheme where they
want to pretend that the dictatorship of
Joseph Stalin doesn't count like it's
only a particular example of communism
yet doesn't count in Congress was a
whole uh-huh and the particular
dictatorship in China under Mao Zedong
doesn't count and you can see where this
is going now I think a few people are
immature enough that their problem
really is a failure to apprehend the
relationship between the ideal and the
real but most of the time what you're
dealing with is a completely cynical
intentional misrepresentation of things
to justify a particular ideological or
political position you know I don't
think it's the case that Mexi and a
privileged vegan
really fail to understand the gravity of
the deaths of millions of people due to
government engineered starvation in
China under Mao Zedong something I have
videos on you can click through the
playlist maybe I'll be dealing but I do
ask for some detailed videos talking
about those issues on this channel could
have brought two years ago thing I have
done research on I'd you know details or
you know policies even something that
doesn't have such a big body count
attached to it
policies about freedom of speech that
resulted in people being hunted down and
killed for daring to criticize the
government they resulted in people being
put in prison for what we would think of
today as not just not as trivial
complaints as the government but
sometimes just just pleas for help just
reporting that people were starving in
their own village and that they needed
the government's help and that being
responsive with terrible repression
how'd you do a lack of freedom of speech
and that doesn't add up to millions of
deaths but of course as a horrible
showing of fetanyl site we were just
listening to two self-identified
revolutionary socialists or communists
making excuses along these lines and
saying well you can't treat these
examples as definitive and I think a
more accurate way to phrase that is you
can't treat this example as representing
anything other than itself and if we
phrase it that way of course that is
absolutely true so for example political
corruption in Florida in the United
States that resulted in the election of
George W Bush the first election of
George Bush that is a problem that is a
case study that's something we can study
in political science and it would never
really occur to anyone to raise this
kind of ghastly specter of dismissing
the significance of the rail of
corruption and incompetence in that
election and how the actual ballots were
counted and many other things but
including just the counting of ballots
itself was one of the problems in that
election
okay so this was a correct direction
this was a flawed Russian this was an
illegitimate election why would anyone
construe that as either representing or
failing to represent an ideal of
democracy I mean it doesn't even occur
to us to say no no you can't look at
this example as impugn a ting the ideal
of what democracy ought to be because we
already know it's a familiar enough
thing in our culture in this political
context that we're not discussing what
democracy ought to me we're discussing
what democracy is we're discussing a
democracy in the United States of
America around the year 2000 in Florida
actually operates were engaged in
discussion of the real knot of the ideal
yeah now in matters of religion in
matters of ideologies including vegan
ideology ecology and more etcetera or
Islam naturally people drift away from
discussing the real is real and they do
get caught up in this this this type of
problem of demanding you know how dare
you treat this example as representing
something other than itself how dare you
treat this example as if it represented
an ideal and my answer is in effect
every time know this example truly
matters it's it's genuinely important in
and of itself without representing
anything outside of itself anything
larger or anything smaller than itself
so if you look at for example the
history of democracy in Haiti or the
whole history of politics in Haiti the
history of Haiti is something
tremendously important in itself and I
think it would be laughable and observed
if someone claimed that the history of
Haiti represents the history of all
black people like black people in the
United States of America or black people
in Brazil and say no what are you
talking about it this is fede this is
mystery baby and of course there were
some connections there were some
payrolls there are some contrasts but
even if you want to compare the history
of Haiti to the history of Cuba Cuba is
right next door
no this doesn't make sense it doesn't
make sense to generalize
racially it doesn't make sense to
generalize geographically either the
history of he matters in themselves or
it doesn't and you know the context of
talking about politics or religion or
anything or ideologies in these issues
it's absurd to try to argue that it
doesn't of course it matters that many
of these people think about politics in
a way that begins from the ideal and
proceeds downward to the real and thus
as soon as they encounter a problem
that's real they try to retreat to the
ideal to offer what I think can be
properly called idealistic excuses so
the question is as follows I'm going to
slightly reward it just for clarity he
opens by saying this was one of your
most interesting and illuminating videos
for me even though I am no fan of
religion myself I still find your
generalizations about Islam unacceptable
why are they unacceptable because he
says I worked from exceptional and
extreme examples such as the history of
Mauritania and the history of Saudi
Arabia okay now again this is just as
absurd as if someone said to you no no
no the elections in Florida that elected
President George Bush those aren't were
presentative
of democracy of course they're not
they're a tremendously important
political event in and of itself can we
draw conclusions from those elections
that are important for other elections
in the future yes it doesn't represent
anything other than itself this is about
the separation of the real from the
ideal and to plunge into and really
engage with what's real in political
history in a meaningful and sincere way
right the history of mauritania
mauritania is one country effort really
matters in and of itself it really does
my line of reasoning begins from
something real and concludes with
something real it's really not about
ideals in this sense at all I'm not
looking for more tinea to provide me
with an ideal
representation of Islam and I'm not
looking for Florida or Haiti to provide
me with an idealized representation of
democracy nor for example do you I look
at history United States or the history
of Haiti to provide you with an ideal of
revolution both of them are very
different very interesting histories of
revolution you come on a lot from
studying the history of the revolution
Haiti is through the revolution that
states ok though he also says Saudi
Arabia somehow doesn't represent Islam
okay now yeah what could that possibly
mean bring it back to Mexi and privilege
vegan what are we talking about if we're
talking about
quint communism unquote but you're
excluding from consideration
China and Russia from the history room
these are such enormous influential
fundamental aspects of the history
Commons I mean also a place like East
Germany is tremendous important how
could we possibly exclude from a
discussion of Islamic politics the role
of Saudi Arabia frankly in any period of
the history of Islam so that's that's
even more absurd though I I do think
it's I do think it's fundamentally
stupid to dismiss the history of
Mauritania as something unimportant I do
think it's stupid to dismiss the history
of Haiti is something important I'm
someone who spent a lot of time and
energy studying history and politics of
Laos the lower shows in Southeast Asia
Cambodia and for example the Kree in a
jib way those are all places again I
think it would be stupid for someone to
have a contempt of heard me I think it
would be stupid for someone to have a
contemptuous and dismissive attitude
towards the political history of those
peoples in those countries but many do
many do why because it is possible for
them to do so it is
possible for people to dismiss ignore
and overlook a small and powerless and
poverty-stricken country like Laos or
Haiti but it is absolutely impossible to
overlook and ignore the political
history of Russia China and Saudi Arabia
so here I have to question the sincerity
but the person asked the question
although again it's a very polite world
word a question and I will continue so
you asked how can I possibly treat
extreme examples with Mauritania and
Saudi Arabia as an accurate or failure
representation of the history and
reality of Islam I don't think if you
search in your heart of hearts I think
you will find there is no conflict
between the concept of extreme and of
reality the problem you have is the
contrast between the extreme and the
ideal the misconduct corruption and
incompetence that was demonstrated in
the state of Florida in the election of
drugs that we book you could say was
extreme it's not typical for an American
election it's not average it's not
normal it's not universal and for all of
these same reasons it's all the more
important for us to study and for us to
learn from when we deal with things that
are real we this is an irrelevant right
of a extreme or they average really
typical at what stage will be say the
history of communism in China is average
or typical or normal rather than extreme
of course you can these extremes but I'm
not looking for those extremes to
represent something other than what they
actually are so this is a sense in which
the sort of platonic or Neoplatonic
bias in Western education I think
poisons the engagement with politics and
this is an example of how
political philosophy forces us to base
our discourse in what's empirically real
only to proceed as I would say not just
skeptically but nihilistic aliy and not
to proceed from one ideal to another or
not to treat the ideal as a criterion
for the real if the ideal is moderate to
discard the evidence from hyperbole
what's real as failing to live up to
that standard as be accurately
representative of what's supposed to be
ideal what you're doing
is sifting through the evidence of
what's real and only picking and
choosing examples that will live up to
your ideal and that is I think in the
strictest sense insane